README.md, before:

YET ANOTHER SIMPLE TOTP TOKEN GENERATOR IN PURE C
=======


This is a simple (re)implementation of the **TOTP Token generator** written in Pure C and following the 
references:

* [RFC6238](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6238)
* [RFC4226](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4226)

It doesn't expose any external api, you can just build it and use with the most popular provider
that implement the RFC specification.

BUILD FROM SRC
----
You can simply build it using the Makefile provided.
When you run **make** it generates a bin/ folder inside the root dir of the project containing the result of the compilation.


USAGE
---

    $ ./c_otp -h
    Usage ./bin/c_otp [-f fname] | [-b b32_secretkey] [-v]

According to the help of the command, you can have to mode:

* **direct**: it is used to run a totp calculation *on the fly*. 

To do this simply run:

        $ c_otp -b <BASE32_SECRET>

and if the secret is a valid base32, it executes the decode and then performs the calculation.
If you want to make a test you can generate an example test VECTOR obtained as the following:

    $ echo "test" | base32 (ORSXG5A=)


* **provider**: this is the most interesting mode because you can define the list of your providers
in a *providerrc* file and pass it to the binary:

    $ c_otp -f providerrc -s

The -s flag inspiration is taken from the *slstatus suckless* project and it is used to print on the 
**STDOUT** the array containing all the defined providers.

Inside the project is provided a *providerrc.sample*:

    #provider:secret ###THIS IS A COMMENT: it will be ignored ..
    protonmail:ORSXG5A=
    amazon:MVUGY3Y=
    google:ORSXG5A=
    #trello:ORSKGGGH5A=


TODO LIST
------

* Use a gpg  provider to enc/dec the *providerrc* file

Commit message:

Serious memory bugs parsing provider file
This patch represents a rework of the main parsing
providerrc function which is afftected by serious
memory leaks. The purpose of the fix is to revisit
the code base providing a few improvements and
optimizations in the way the memory structures are
allocated, used and freed.
Finally, the print function is improved and now it
allows to get some basic json like output.
The main function is reworked as well, the switch
case statement is turned into a section which can
be used only for getting input and validating it.
A new flow is then added to continue the execution
according to the cli parameters:
if -b<key> is received it has the highest priority
over the other cli options (single shot mode), or
the otp computing is run in loop mode (if '-s' is
specified).

Closes: #1
Signed-off-by: fmount <fmount@inventati.org>

README.md, after:

YET ANOTHER SIMPLE TOTP TOKEN GENERATOR IN PURE C
=======


This is a simple (re)implementation of the **TOTP Token generator** written in Pure C and following the 
references:

* [RFC6238](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6238)
* [RFC4226](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4226)

It doesn't expose any external api, you can just build it and use with the most popular provider
that implement the RFC specification.

BUILD FROM SRC
----
You can simply build it using the Makefile provided.
When you run **make** it generates a bin/ folder inside the root dir of the project containing the result of the compilation.


USAGE
---

    $ ./c_otp -h
    Usage ./bin/c_otp [-f fname] | [-b b32_secretkey] [-m mode] [-v]

According to the help of the command, you can have to mode:

* **direct**: it is used to run a totp calculation *on the fly*.

To do this simply run:

    $ c_otp -b <BASE32_SECRET>

and if the secret is a valid base32, it executes the decode and then performs the calculation.
If you want to make a test you can generate an example test VECTOR obtained as the following:

    $ echo "test" | base32 (ORSXG5A=)


* **provider**: this is the most interesting mode because you can define the list of your providers
in a *providerrc* file and pass it to the binary:

    $ c_otp -f providerrc -s

The -s flag inspiration is taken from the *slstatus suckless* project and it is used to print on the
**STDOUT** the array containing all the defined providers.
However, as the helper suggests, we can pass the `-m mode` option which can be used to provide a json
like format output, useful to interact with other kind of applications.
The accepted values are `0` and `1`, where `0` represents the default value if this option is not
passed; if `1` is passed as value, a json like format output is provided.

For instance running:

    $ ./c_otp -f providerrc -m 1

we can obtain the following output:

    {
            "providers": {
                    "protonmail": "123456",
                    "google": "123456",
                    "amazon": "123456",
            }
    }

and it can be parsed using tools like `jq`; in fact, we can filter by provider name and get just the
value running:

    $ ./c_otp -f providerrc -m 1 | jq '.providers.protonmail'

In the project tree a *providerrc.sample* is provided and it's used for testing purposes:

    #provider:secret ###THIS IS A COMMENT: it will be ignored ..
    protonmail:ORSXG5A=
    amazon:MVUGY3Y=
    google:ORSXG5A=
    #trello:ORSKGGGH5A=

You can just use it as a starting point example.
